
In the initial IdP deployment for Tuakiri, IdPs were configured to automatically release attributes according to an attribute filter constructed by the Tuakiri Federation Registry, based on attribute request information gathered from the Service Providers (SPs).  This approach would not scale for eduGAIN.

Attribute release for eduGAIN is driven by two separate mechanisms:

*   Research and Scholarship (R&S) entity category: SPs in the R&S entity category expect attributes from a small predefined set to be automatically released by the IdP.  IdPs supporting the R&S category MUST release these attributes.  Tuakiri requires that IdPs joining eduGAIN declare support for R&S and automatically release the R&S attributes to R&S SPs.
*   Metadata-based attribute release: SP requests for attributes can also be recorded in the metadata.  We strongly recommend to configure the IdP to release attributes as requested in the metadata - these requests would have been vetted by the home federation of the SP, and the attribute release is crucial for the login to succeed.

To configure the attribute release:

*   download `rns-attribute-filter.xml`  and `metadata-based-attribute-filter.xml` from [https://github.com/REANNZ/Tuakiri-public/tree/master/shibboleth-idp/idp](https://github.com/REANNZ/Tuakiri-public/tree/master/shibboleth-idp/idp) into your `/opt/shibboleth-idp/conf`  :
    
    ```
    wget -O /opt/shibboleth-idp/conf/rns-attribute-filter.xml https://github.com/REANNZ/Tuakiri-public/raw/master/shibboleth-idp/idp/rns-attribute-filter.xml
    wget -O /opt/shibboleth-idp/conf/metadata-based-attribute-filter.xml https://github.com/REANNZ/Tuakiri-public/raw/master/shibboleth-idp/idp/metadata-based-attribute-filter.xml
    ```
    
    > **Warning**  
    > If deploying these rules on a TEST IdP connected to Tuakiri-TEST, edit the downloaded `metadata-based-attribute-filter.xml`  and change the `PoliceRequirementRule`  at the top of the file as per the instructions in the file.
    
*   add the files to the list of attribute filters in `/opt/shibboleth-idp/conf/services.xml` stored in the `shibboleth.AttributeFilterResources` list:
    
    ```
        <util:list id ="shibboleth.AttributeFilterResources">
            <value>%{idp.home}/conf/attribute-filter.xml</value>
            <value>%{idp.home}/conf/rns-attribute-filter.xml</value>
            <value>%{idp.home}/conf/metadata-based-attribute-filter.xml</value>
            ...
    ```
    
    > **Note**  
    > With the `metadata-based-attribute-filter.xml`  filter in place, the original attribute filter generated by the Federation Registry (loaded by the IdP in the same section) can be removed - it would be only duplicating the metadata-based attribute filter for Tuakiri SPs.  (The only exception are value-specific rules with regular expressions - please contact Tuakiri at [tuakiri@reannz.co.nz](mailto:tuakiri@reannz.co.nz) if your IdP uses these).
    >
    > After removing the remotely loaded attribute filter, we recommend to reduce the reload interval of attribute filter files from 15m to 5s (now that all files are local).  In `/opt/shibboleth-idp/conf/services.properties` , change `idp.service.attribute.filter.checkInterval`  to `PT5S` :
    >
    > ```
    > idp.service.attribute.filter.checkInterval = PT5S
    > ```
    >
    > Note that if the Tuakiri-generated attribute filter was loaded from a local file [refreshed by an external script](installing_a_shibboleth_3_x_idp.html#load-attribute-filter) (cron job), when no longer loaded this file, the cron job can be (and should be) removed.
    
*   and restart the IdP to pick up the change:
    
    ```
    service tomcat restart
    ```
    

